greetings listeners around the world and
welcome to the China history podcast
we're coming to you via podcast RSS feed
from WWII a history podcast calm I am
your host and humble narrator Lazlo
Montgomery bringing you yet another
episode of our China dynasty's overview
sort of a special service provided to
you weekly at no additional cost of
course from us folks here at the China
history podcast last week we looked at
the short-lived and ill-fated swayed
Dynasty of Wendy and young Dee thanks to
the efforts and achievements of the sui
dynasty who had unified the Middle
Kingdom after 271 years of disunity when
the first tang dynasty emperor stepped
foot in the Imperial Palace and Chung on
he inherited a nice turnkey ready-made
political military economic fiscal and
legal system that allowed him to quickly
start the task of stabilization and
consolidation with so much heavy lifting
already having been taken care of during
this way China was brought to a height
of glory that hadn't been seen since
perhaps the time of the Western Han and
even the Western Han paled besides the
shining magnificence of the tongue the
credit for founding the dynasty and fast
tracking things in the right direction
belongs to the first two Tong Emperor's
called Sewell and his much more
brilliant and great in every way son Lee
Sherman who reigned splendidly as
Emperor tongue-tied zone from stem to
stern the Tong dynasty ran from 618 to
907 not quite three centuries but for
one of those centuries between the years
650 and 750 ad this was the Chinese
century Beijing Olympics back there was
nothing compared to the kind of face
China was walking around with in the 7th
and 8th centuries this time period was
the best run of years China had ever
scene since you the great tamed the
floods back in 2200 BC during this
portion of the Tang Dynasty from
Emperor's tight zone to Shenzhen China
was truly the Middle Kingdom it was at
the forefront of civilization on earth
its armies were the most powerful its
imperial court was the most enlightened
that the open-mindedness of the rulers
and the aristocracy was never more
progressive the government and political
systems honed and refined over and over
for centuries since the time of Han
Council gave China the the right to lay
claim to the best-run government and
administrative systems on the planet the
military as well was strong and
efficiently run the Tong Empire at its
peak east to west ran from Korea to
Persia and north to south from Xin Jiang
and Kazakhstan to as far south as
central Vietnam now it's easy to say it
ran this far east west north and south
the furthermost edges of the Tong or any
ancient Empire always were the most
difficult to govern and hold on to for
any sustained period of time and this is
true in the Tong as well the Tong
capital in Chang'an was the center of
this most cosmopolitan of empires they
are in Cheung on this melange of Central
Asian Indian Middle Eastern and Persian
cultures would be absorbed by the
imperial court and the aristocrats and
then disseminated across Chinese society
or more accurately across Chinese
aristocratic society
the peasants life was and remained as it
always was tied to the land and the
whims of nature it was a million light
years away from the refined and educated
world and lifestyle of the Tong dynasty
aristocracy it was a time of such
advancement in all of the fine arts and
especially in poetry in 18th century
Ching Emperor I don't know if it was
Kang XI Yong Chun or Ian long but they
ordered all tong poems to be compiled
and
organized into this anthology what he
got was 30 volumes containing 48
thousand nine hundred poems by 2300
poets there were a lot other poets in
Tang Dynasty China besides a li Bai and
du feu it was a golden time for the Arts
and you saw poets and painters who were
raised to high offices in the Empire
Chang An which of course is modern-day
Xian in Shaanxi province was so
beautiful that even in the 7th and 8th
centuries you would get tourists who
would come from India and as far as the
fringes of Europe
so our Austrians and Nestorian
Christians flocked to chun-yan and were
welcomed and protected by tides on who
was like Akbar the Great almost a
thousand years later acting like a
patron of the Arts and through China
open to any and all influences these
foreign ideas gave China began to export
grain rice corn silk spices there was so
much surplus the Mandate of Heaven just
couldn't have been more secure the Grand
Canal and all of China's Great and near
great waterways were alive with commerce
from Tung China harbors sailed vessels
at sail to ports in Persia and India
silk was selling for its weight in gold
in Europe yet on the streets of China
and other aristocratic centers in the
north and south silk was common fabric
fur coats were more plentiful in a
century Chang on that in 20th century
New York City never before had China
been so wealthy and commanded so much
attention on admiration from all worlds
they came in contact with a census in
609 showed there were 9 million
households which roughly translated to
50 million people living in Tong dynasty
China and during this time when China
was preeminent in the world Europe was
mired in darkness Muslim armies were on
the rampage in North Africa Western
world is only in 732 that Charles Martel
was able to stop their advance at tour
and when Charles the hammer was holding
back the Umayyad conquerors at tour and
being the last line of defense of
Christendom and Western civilization in
China was the peak years of the peak
reign of the peak dynasty the Tang was
also contemporary with the establishment
of the Carolingian dynasty and
Charlemagne reigned as king of the
Franks contemporary with the time you
also had the age of the Vikings and all
the kinds of stress they gave to the
people of Northern Europe well Europe
was still sorting itself out 300 years
after the abdication of Romulus Augustus
in 476 China was thriving and advancing
on all from it all started in March of
618 with the death of Emperor yang D of
slate as I mentioned in the last podcast
the power behind the throne by now was
one leader in he was able to trace his
ancestry back to tule God the founder of
the Western Liang dynasty during the 16
Kingdoms period the UN installed this
boy Emperor Gong D on the throne if you
recall the sway Emperor yang Dee retired
after the Korean debacles and went down
to Chengdu to live out his years in a
cloud of debauchery but once young Dee
died this Gong Dee was quickly removed
from power and in June of 618 li Ren
establishes the tang dynasty since he
had been the Duke of Tung his main task
was to bring into the fault all the
wayward warlords and contenders who had
strayed during the final chaotic years
of the sway and to unify the country
once again now this task more or less
was completed by 628 although by 624 all
that had to be done with some mopping up
and reorganization of the military in
the meantime he adopted all these sway
policies and systems but loosened up on
the more harsh penalties and took the
legal codes produced during young Dee's
time and refine them even further now
the main event for the purposes of this
podcast was gentlemen namely sure mean
this is the third son of the yeren the
founding Emperor had two other surviving
sons the qin qiong
the eldest and the Crown Prince and
League ng the youngest these two sons
were allied with each other against the
Lee Sherman
their father Lee again now reigning as
Emperor tonkatsu was not as strong a
character as his third son Lee Sherman
whose prowess on the battlefield and as
a strategist earned him the reputation
as the co-founder with the Legion of the
Tong dynasty now the Crown Prince and
eldest brother he too fought with his
father and earned a reputation for
leadership and bravery but his battles
compared to Lee sure means battles just
didn't compare now emperor called su he
sort of waffled back and forth first he
picks lychee and Chong and then he says
all perhaps you should go with ally
shermeen and you could imagine and you
could imagine the factions and Cheung on
working behind the scenes like you
probably cannot even imagine using their
influence to get this indecisive Edward
choose their man these two brothers were
the ones who led the armies on behalf of
the father to rein in all these
independent centers of power in the
south and the north east and central
plains I mean when li Ren established
the Tong and became Emperor tangled so
they really only control the area where
the old Qin state was in the way River
Valley these two brothers now locked in
this fight to the death were the tip of
the spear to unify China again which
took about five years to do in the
summer of 626 after months of the most
over-the-top high-stakes maneuvering
between the two brothers
Lee Sherman prevailed at the Shen will
gates July 2nd 626 the 4th day of the
6th moon at the gate leading to the
Emperor's Palace in Chung on in walk the
two brothers Lee Qin Qiong and Lee Grahn
Chi Lee shermeen was the one who
actually shot the arrow that killed Lee
Jin Chun both brothers were eliminated
Lee Sherman was only 27 years old when
all this was going down and he had
already defeated numerous opponents on
the battlefield
so this Lee sure mean after he kills his
brothers who were his
rivals archenemies he blows in on
Emperor Gaozu whose father and tells him
the way it has to be from now on but
this is not before he prostrates himself
before his father to beg forgiveness for
his hand in the death of the Emperor's
two other surviving sons so the whole
upshot of all this was Lee Sherman
became the Crown Prince and two months
later the founder of the Tang Dynasty Li
Yin Tong called su abdicates in favor of
the Crown Prince and then the good times
are about to roll for China so Li
shermeen reigned as Emperor Tong tights
on many consider him the greatest and if
not the greatest and certainly the most
heroic of all China's emperors he's
certainly in the top three greatest and
there were plenty of good ones between
you the Great and puyi he reigned from
626 to 649 not quite a quarter century
now he brought Imperial China to new
heights of greatness he presided over
not only a period of pacification and
territorial expansion but also vigorous
internal renewal within the Empire and
believe it or not as great as things got
during the reign of tight zone the best
was still yet to come under shinsung or
tongue Ming Wong is he is more commonly
known he followed later on about 40
years after the death of a tight zone so
the Turkic Central Asians especially the
Fuji or Eastern Turkic agonic presented
a first big challenge to the new emperor
but he was able to finally defeat them
and by 6:30 they were hardly the menace
they had been he began his reign by
using the same strategy as his father he
paid them off with tribute this worked
sort of but some fourteen years later in
642 the tongue empire were the Masters
of Central Asia the ultimate defeat of
the Turks was the defining major
achievement of tongue-tied zone
pacifying the north and northwest
Mongols Turks was the holy grail of
every Emperor going all the way back to
the shun but under tight song it became
a reality it was at this time that
the land we also know as Turkestan was
given the name Shin Jung or new frontier
this emperor is also a figure of great
admiration for his utter devotion to
Confucian virtues
now this embracement of Confucianism
follow the most unconvenient well first
he was a bloodthirsty general on the
battlefield and murderer of his two
brothers in the black hand behind his
father's forced abdication despite all
that Confucianism and tight zones rain
went very well together
his reputation went down as a leader who
was diligent and got involved in the
day-to-day governance of the country's
affairs he chose excellent
administrators and listened to his
advisers he reformed agriculture to the
extent that farmers had it quite good
compared to the hardships of the past in
times of famine in some areas tight zone
made sure there was ample famine relief
whenever and wherever needed the kingdom
of Tibet was down in the southwest for
the Himalayas to the south and the
tibetan plateau to the north during this
period of tight zone the tibetan empire
was a full bloom and during this time
period you're now starting to get more
regular interaction between china and
this mysterious southwestern kingdom
there King born a year before the
founding of the town was song stan gampo
also the founder of the tibetan empire
the relationship between tong china and
tibet was a complicated one but one
interesting thing to note i john married
off one of his nieces to some stan gampo
this was done to keep peace at a
precarious time she was the famous
princess when Chun or when Chun gongju
she married the Tibetan King when he was
37 years old at 6:41
she coming from the Tong Court was a
devout Buddhist in a dish she princess
when Chun who played a major role in
bringing Buddhism and Chinese culture to
Tibet and with her husband the king
popularized it around the Himalayan
kingdom songs tan gumbo is also credited
with being the founder of the city of
Lhasa tides own was not lucky in family
affairs one son
yo in 643 rose up against his father but
this was put down and he was forced to
commit suicide for his crime the Crown
Prince Lee Chang Chen was next although
his conspiracy was much broader and even
included the Emperor's brother he made
his move against his father in advance
of what he was certain was going to be a
move to get rid of him first Lee Chong
Chen's rival which was his brother Lee
tae was then made Crown Prince but after
tied song learned that it was Lee ties
treachery that pushed Lee Chun Chen to
rebel in the first place and that
furthermore Lee tae had designs to do
away with his younger brother Lee Chiu
well he had Lee ty exiled and Lee jerk
was then made Crown Prince and with that
all the pieces were now in place that
would lead to the rise and triumph of
the Empress would set in during the
reign of the great tight song Emperor
China's territory was greatly expanded
and was turned into a multinational
multicultural Empire he reached out to
neighboring lands and lands far away and
established cultural political and
economic ties Lee shermeen tongue-tied
zone deep died in his 50th year 649 now
we'll look at the next emperor gaozong
until the time when who attends
influence on the throne is complete in
683 and will end there I'll reap the
woods of Tian podcast episode for those
who haven't heard it yet and to keep the
continuity going on our little dynasty
overview series then we'll pick up again
after the fall of woods attend so by
this time the Tang Dynasty has seen and
done great things it hasn't all been
easy there have been Wars and the usual
disturbances along the fringes of the
Empire very efficient and effective
administration and bureaucracy has been
set up and this whole Empire wide system
was serviced by an army of Confucian
scholar officials who made their way up
the ranks of the Chinese Confucian
bureaucratic cursus and arm the imperial
civil service exams like they used to
have in the time of the Western Han or
by now back in full force but by mid to
late on after a while there came a time
of mass corruption up and down the ranks
and serving in that bureaucracy was soon
looked at as a way to potential riches
so Quan Phong's high Buddhism had been
fully embraced by the Empire and beyond
the Empire as well and from Buddhism
came the necessity to have a convenient
medium from which to efficiently
disseminates and study the Buddhist
sutras this necessity led to the Tong
dynasty invention of printing although
this came more in the 9th century by the
time of the emperor gaozong surely the
R&D for printing so to speak was fully
underway leecher or emperor gaozong was
only 22 years old when he filled the
very big shoes of his father the tight
song emperor he isn't considered a great
or an assertive emperor though he did
last for 33 years historians all seem in
agreement he was a generally weak
character but we character a no weak
character the GAO's own Emperor
succeeded we're tied song failed both
the sway and / yang D and the Tong
Emperor tight song both tried and failed
miserably to conquer Korea but gout zone
between 660 and 665 first took Peck che
and Shilla
that was the second of the three
kingdoms was already showing suzerainty
to Tung China and their alliance with
Tung unified the Korean Peninsula when
they finally together overpowered Kaguya
the Koreans not being anyone you want to
mess with were not an easy people to
keep down and by 676 the unified kingdom
of Shilla kicked the tongue out of Korea
in 665 things were looking good for
God's own but then suddenly the Western
Turks rose up in open rebellion and five
years later the Tibetans were
overrunning the Tarim basin and then
from 682 to 721 the Mongolian Turks
savagely attacked south of the Great
Wall and for almost four decades gave
the tongue a headache up in the north
and speaking of headaches the
tong emperor gaozong in the mid 670 s
is starting to suffer from all these
persistent headaches a series of strokes
followed and by this time his empress wu
210 was in control and whatever happens
in china by this time is attributed to
her rather than to her husband the
emperor
however by 683 the emperor gaozong he
dies and would say 10 is in complete
control until she passes from the scene
in 705 now this whole period of all the
sordid details of woods attends humble
beginnings as a junior concubine to the
tight zone emperor and then to the
heights of power is all chronicled in
the what's a 10 podcast that i will
reload now we're leaving the tongue at
what looks to be a bad time by the time
of the third emperor indeed things are
precarious but despite the bad rap it's
a 10 gets from historians all are in
agreement that once she clawed and
scratched her way to power leaving
plenty of blood and corpses along the
way she turned out to be a very good
ruler an administrator once we get past
what's attends time you have the reign
of emperor ming or shrine zone which is
where the tongue peeks and then it's all
downhill from there until the bitter end
comes and 9:07 but i didn't get into it
yet because i want to dedicate an entire
podcast on the subject but during this
period of the tongue especially during
this pox Seneca a period that set in
after the north and west would pacified
or pacified enough to allow trade routes
to prosper without hindrance and and the
the granddaddy of them all the premier
trade route was none other than the
vulture Lu the Silk Road it was one big
pipeline from which all kinds of
luxuries commodities foodstuffs and all
kinds of exotica travelled back and
forth
maybe some of these things going east to
west and west to east might be
commonplace to us in the 21st century
but in the seventh eighth and ninth
centuries almost nothing was commonplace
everything was new
and this of course wasn't limited to
physical commodities and curiosities and
the like the Silk Road was also a
channel where ideas as well travel back
and forth new inventions were seen by
westerner and Chinese alike for the
first time and perhaps some of these
technologies were perfected back in
their own homeland based on what each
other by chance observed you know it's
about now things are really starting to
kick in right now
you know the 500 600 700 this is where
we really start to see big time day-in
day-out interaction between all the
peoples and what is now present-day
Europe Russia the Middle East Central
Asia China India Vietnam Cambodia Korea
I mean we're far along enough where you
know by this time everybody's talking
everybody it's all done in a very slow
and primitive way but it all had to
start somewhere in the Silk Road during
the tongue dynasty was the perfect
conduit where a lot of this
intercultural exchange and all the
overland trading was happening trade was
interrupted many times I mean after all
Central Asia back then believe it or not
still had a lot in common with Central
Asia today so you could imagine the
potential flash points between law young
and the East and the Black Sea in the
West the 4000 miles of the Silk Road
carried a lot of ideas schools of
thought governing methods astronomical
observations chemicals remedies and
legends we'll come back and revisit the
Silk Road another day and I think we
will just stop right here with the weak
emperor gaozong was passing in 683 the
Tang Dynasty is about to get thrown on
its head with the long and well glorious
to some extent reign of the only woman
in Chinese history to rule in her own
right as Emperor or in her case Empress
she took the tongue to new heights but
it was years after her passing that we
get the real crown jewel in the Tang
Dynasty the Ming Emperor until then if
you haven't yet heard the words
Podcast I'm gonna re-upload this one and
note in its title that it's a
rebroadcast then the following week
we'll continue on at about 7:05 with the
death of lutes at 10 another 200 years
to go yet for the tongue and so from the
pleasant little American town of
Claremont California where although not
for long the late and great Frank Zappa
once lived
this is Lazlo Montgomery welcoming you
to visit our website anytime at
www.gfi.com/webmonitor for another
exciting episode of the china history
podcast